Sinatra Project Brainstorming

I want to create an MVC web app that allows each user to have an account, has multiple models, has at least one ‘has_many’ relationship, validates user data, and uses ActiveRecord. My current idea is to build an app where users create an account and create a private or public list of all of their possessions they are interested in trading or selling. This can be called ‘Swap Your Stuff’ or ‘swap-your-stuff.’

Swap-your-stuff Features

-users create an account with a username, email, and password. Users have many tradeables (possessions they want to swap or sell). Users can also have a location (to make swapping easier). Users can also have a private list of possessions they do not yet want to sell/swap but do want to keep track of in a list. Users can also have a wishlist (have one wishlist).

-Possessions or tradeables have their own model. Each possession has one user. The possessions table has the following: name, description, tradeable?(Boolean), condition, asking price, user_id.

Users Table
ID (integer, primary key, autogenerated)	Username (required)	Email (required)	Password_digest(required, uses has_secure_password)	Location (optional)



Possessions Table
ID	User_id	Name	Description	Tradeable?	Condition	Asking Price	Keywords



Purposes from a user point of view

This app is intended to help users do the following: 1) organize a list of their belongings, 2) figure out what they are willing to swap as a tradeable, 3) provide an interface for locating other users to swap with and other items to swap for.

The app thus needs to provide the following browser views:
1) A user account homepage that shows all items entered in the user’s account
2) A create new item page that renders a form for a user to add an item.
3) A listing page of all items that are tradeable from all users.
4) A view page for a single item
5) An edit page for a single item (only user with the item in account is allowed to edit)
6) A delete function route for a user to delete an item in their account.

First version features

There are many features that can be added later, but for right now I want to define the bare minimums that the first version of the app should have:

1) New users can create a secure account with a secure password. Only they can view their entire list of possessions, only they can edit an item in their account, and only they can delete an item.

2) Users must sign up with a username, password, and email address.

3) Users can add new possessions and decide if they are tradeable.

4) Users can view all of their items on one route, and an item individually.

5) Users can see a list of all items marked tradeable from all users. However, items not marked tradeable are private.

Later features

1) Users can sort tradeable items by keywords, locations, asking prices, etc.

2) A CLI that helps users determine what their tradeable item might be worth.

3) An interface to anonymously exchange emails with users without revealing the user’s true email address.

4) A wishlist that can be publicly viewable and help trading.

5) Enhanced user experience with CSS styling.
